--- Query Log ---
Timestamp: 2025-11-12T16:34:57.013765
Original Query: Hey half Mr. school yesterday due to fever and my teacher taught me about balance date can you explain me what is balance date
Book UUID: 9f4e8506f5d016caa6cd7c7b824396829225ed8d9fed9229a3e04d7fbf2a3372
Class: 7, Subject: science

--- LLM Query Processing ---
Reformulated Query: Provide a comprehensive explanation and definition of the term 'Balance Date,' detailing its meaning, application, and typical context, potentially in business, accounting, or financial reporting.
Classification: conceptual
Conceptual Score: 0.85
Keywords: balance date (Score: 1.00), explain (Score: 0.75), definition (Score: 0.60), accounting concept (Score: 0.50)

--- Formatted Top Chunks for LLM (Context) ---

  --- Chunk 1 (Hybrid Score: 0.4300) ---
     Chapter: AIR, WINDS AND CYCLONES
     Text: Fig 6a                          Fig 6b
Take two paper bags or empty paper cups of
the same size. Take a broomstick. Hang the
two bags in the inverted position on the two
ends of the broom stick. Tie a piece of thread
in the middle of the stick. Hold the stick by
the thread, like a weighing balance. Put a
burning candle below one of the bags as
shown in the figure 6 (b) and observe what
happens.
Note that we have used paper bags or cups as
they are of  light weight and it would be easier
to see the results of this experiment if we take
any such light objects to hang on the thread.
• Why is the balance of the bags disturbed?
Handle the burning candle carefully.
Let us do -6
Take a balloon and fill it with air. Heat it slowly.
What happens?
The balloon expands and the air inside exerts
more pressure on the walls.
• If  the tied end is opened now, what
would happen?
The air from the balloon would slowly escape.
• Why does that happen?
Let us do - 7

  --- Chunk 2 (Hybrid Score: 0.3690) ---
     Chapter: NUTRITION IN PLANTS
     Text: Do you think Von Helmont’s conclusions
were correct?
People tried to check this
and thus experiment after
experiment followed.
Stephan Hales described
the leaves as organs of
transpiration ( loss of
excess water from plant
body) and he said that
plants exchange gases with
their surrounding air.
Furthermore, he was the first to point out a
possible role of light in plant nutrition.
It was Priestley who
carried out a sequence of
experiments. He could
demonstrate that what
animals were doing to
the air was being
reversed by plants. That
is, according to him, if
animals were making the
air impure, plants were making it pure.
Ingenhouz tried to repeat Priestley’s
experiments under different conditions
and found that only the
green parts of plants when
exposed to sunlight could
do that. Several scientists
started working on what
green plants were doing
with water and air and
sunlight and till date we
know that-
Green parts of plants use carbon dioxide in

  --- Chunk 3 (Hybrid Score: 0.3260) ---
     Chapter: NUTRITION IN PLANTS
     Text: do that. Several scientists
started working on what
green plants were doing
with water and air and
sunlight and till date we
know that-
Green parts of plants use carbon dioxide in
the presence of sunlight (as well as other
sources of light) along with water to make
glucose, starch and other food materials. This
process of making food materials is called as
photosynthesis and such plants are called
Autotrophs.
List the four major things needed by plants
to carry out the process of  photosynthesis.
In nature, the presence of the green substance
in leaves is essential for photosynthesis to take
place. This green substance is called
chlorophyll.
Mass (kg)
 At start After five years Change in mass (kg)
Tree 2.27 76.74 74.47
Dry soil 90.72 90.66 0.06
Fig 4
Stephen Hales
Fig 5
Priestley
Fig 6
Ingenhouz
Fig 7
SCERT, TELANGANA99VII Science Free Distribution by Govt. of T.S. 2021-22
Where does water come from?
We have learnt that plants absorb food from

  --- Chunk 4 (Hybrid Score: 0.1816) ---
     Chapter: SOIL : OUR LIFE
     Text: Remember to collect the soil only on the day
you begin the experiments in class. Don’t forget
to put a label on your soil sample, stating
where you got it from and the date on which
you collected it.
First copy the following Table in your Note
book and note all your observations in this
table. Instructions given after the table will
help you to fill it.
Let us do-5:  Examining The Soil After
Returning To School
Examine the different soil samples brought
to class and see whether you can identify
various properties of soil as given in the
table. Some points to study the properties
are given below.
1. How does the soil look? Is it like fine
powder or granular?
SCERT, TELANGANASoil: Our Life142
2. What is its colour? Is it black, brown
or any other colour?
3. How does it feel when you touch or press
it? Hard, soft, elastic, dry, sticky etc?
4. How does it smell? Is it aromatic, foul
smelling or without a scent?
5. Can you find anything new when you
examine the soil under a microscope?

  --- Chunk 5 (Hybrid Score: 0.1765) ---
     Chapter: SOIL : OUR LIFE
     Text: names, to suit your convenience. But you
should make sure that you get different types
of  soil from different places. It would be even
better if  the soils are of  different colours.
Collect the soil samples while you are on your
way to school from home. But, first, let your
teacher distribute the work of collecting
different soil samples among the different
groups in the class. The class can decide which
group should visit which location and bring
back which type of soil samples to school.
This work distribution should be done a day
before the chapter is begun in the class.
Leave home a little early on that day, go to
the location allotted to you, collect about 250
gm of soil for your sample, and bring it to
school. You can carry the soil in a bag.
Remember to collect the soil only on the day
you begin the experiments in class. Don’t forget
to put a label on your soil sample, stating
where you got it from and the date on which
you collected it.

  --- Chunk 6 (Hybrid Score: 0.1310) ---
     Chapter: WATER
     Text: • Only one percent of all water resources
is available as freshwater.
• The available resource of fresh water is
getting depleted at a very fast pace due
to different human activities.
• Wastewater is generated at homes,
industries, etc. by different human
activities.
• All the wastewater released by home,
industries, hospitals, offices and other
users are collectively called  Sewage.
• Sewage is a liquid waste. Most of it is
water, which has dissolved and
suspended impurities, disease causing
bacteria and other microbes.
• Sewage water contains inorganic,
organic and bacterial as well as other
microbial contaminants.
• Wastewater is treated in treatment plants
• Physical, chemical and biological
processes are involved in treatment of
wastewater at the treatment plants.
• Chlorine kills harmful disease causing
organisms present in wastewater.
• Aeration allows growth of microbes that
break down wastes.
• Different types of drainage systems are
open, closed and underground ones.

  --- Chunk 7 (Hybrid Score: 0.1211) ---
     Chapter: REFLECTION OF LIGHT
     Text: have excited Sai? Some questions came to
his mind. Can you guess the questions?
Write a few such questions.
12. Unexpectedly some water sprinkled on a
mirror while Madhu was shaving his face.
Did he observe any difference in his
image? If  yes, explain why?
13. Imagine that all the houses in your street
have elevation with mirrors.  Suppose you
and your friends are walking in the street.
Would you experience any difficulties
when you walk through that street? Predict
and explain. Is it difficult for birds to live
or fly in that street? Why?
14. Take an empty tooth paste box and two
mirror strips of required size and make a
periscope.
SURSURSURSURSURYYYYYAAAAA
SCERT, TELANGANAReflection of light96
15. What is the angle between  two plane
mirrors when there are five images?
16. What is the difference between convex
and concave mirrors? Draw the diagrams
of  concave and convex mirrors.
17. Where do you find irregular reflection in
daily life? Give some examples.

  --- Chunk 8 (Hybrid Score: 0.1147) ---
     Chapter: CHANGES AROUND US
     Text: 157VII Science Free Distribution by Govt. of T.S. 2021-22
In Class VI, we learnt that many changes are
taking place around us. There are certain
factors that influence these changes and there
are reasons for every change. Among the
changes we observe in our daily life some
changes are slow and some fast. There are
some changes that are temporary and some
are permanent. There are many changes which
take place naturally but for some we need to
initiate or intervene in some way for the change
to occur. In this lesson we try to learn about
some more changes.
We know that there are certain changes that
repeat after roughly a fixed period of time.
For example we observe the repetition of
sunrise and sunset every day. Similarly we
notice changes in seasons after every few
months every year.
Can you think of such other changes from
your daily life?
Make a list of  changes you observe in your
daily life that are repeated after some period
of time.
Let us do-1:  Finding the period of

  --- Chunk 9 (Hybrid Score: 0.1145) ---
     Chapter: HEAT - MEASUREMENT
     Text: the Mercury level.  Now let the ice melt.
Can you observe any change in Mercury level?
 The level of Mercury remains same while ice
melts. This means that temperature is
Fig. 10
SCERT, TELANGANA47VII Science Free Distribution by Govt. of T.S. 2021-22
constant.  This constant temperature at which
ice melts is called melting point of ice and
mark  it  0°C.
Take some water in a beaker.  Immerse the
thermometer in it and start heating the water.
It will start boiling while getting converted
into steam.  Mercury level starts rising and
reaches a point beyond which it doesn’t rise.
Mark the level of mercury at this point.
Observe the constant level at which Mercury
stays while water is boiling, this constant
temperature is called boiling point of  water.
We mark the level of  mercury at this point as
100°C.
Thus temperature at which ice melts or water
boils is constant.  These values are fixed as
0°C and 100°C respectively.  Like water, all
substances in pure form melt and boil at

  --- Chunk 10 (Hybrid Score: 0.1119) ---
     Chapter: MOTION AND TIME
     Text: • Who will reach the school first?  How
much earlier will he be compared to the
other?
• How do you measure ‘early’ or ‘late’
arrival at  school?
You can easily estimate that Ravi reaches the
school earlier than Sathish.  But to answer the
question of how early Ravi reached, we need
to measure the times taken by both Ravi and
Sathish and find the difference of time
between both the cases.
For this we need time measuring instruments
like watches, clocks etc.
Try to give some more examples of  how to
measure time in addition to watches
Now-a-days, we use different instruments like
electronic clocks, digital clocks, quartz clocks
etc to measure time. A few decades ago people
used pendulum clocks that have now become
rare.
Fig. 31                       Fig. 32
Do you know:
Like minutes and hours, week, fortnight,
month, season, ayanam are also units for
measuring time. Sand clock, water clock, sun
dial etc. were used earlier instruments for
estimating time.

--- Generated Answer ---
Hello! I am sorry you were sick, but let me explain balanced diet for you. Think of your body like a fantastic machine. A balanced diet is simply making sure you fuel that machine with all the right types of food, not too much or too little of anything. This means you need energy foods like bread, building foods like eggs, and protecting foods like fruits and vegetables. When you eat a good mix of all these, your body stays strong, you grow well, and you can fight off those nasty fevers and germs!